features/command-palette/README.md, before:

# Command Palette

> **NOTE:** This feature is in opt-in BETA, released through [Netlify Labs](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2021/03/31/test-drive-netlify-beta-features-with-netlify-labs/). Its functionality is subject to change.

The Command Palette is a power tool that gives you quick navigation through the Netlify UI and access to various commands. Use it by pressing <kbd>CTRL</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd> on Windows or Linux (or <kbd>CMD</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd> on macOS), or by selecting the magnifying glass icon in the navigation header. 

**The Command Palette enables you to:**

- Jump to any site on any of your teams
- Navigate directly to a deeply-nested feature or setting
- Search the [docs](https://docs.netlify.com), [blog](https://www.netlify.com/blog/), and [support forums](https://answers.netlify.com) from within the Netlify UI
- Quickly toggle between light and dark modes
- And much more!

## Getting started

To get started, you will need to enable the feature in [Netlify Labs](https://app.netlify.com/user/labs). On the Netlify Labs page, next to the **Command Palette** experimental feature, select **Enable**.

![Enabling Command Palette in Netlify Labs](../../media/command-palette/ff-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Enabling Command Palette in Netlify Labs](../../media/command-palette/ff-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

This action will enable the feature for your account only. 

Once you've enabled Command Palette, you can **use it at any time** by pressing <kbd>CTRL</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd> on Windows or Linux (or <kbd>CMD</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd> on macOS), or by selecting the magnifying glass icon in the navigation header. Doing so will overlay the Command Palette in the center of your window.

![Invoking the Command Palette](../../media/command-palette/palette-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Invoking the Command Palette](../../media/command-palette/palette-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

## Using the Command Palette

After opening the Command Palette, start typing to filter the list of available commands. You can use a mouse, touch screen, or keyboard to select a command. For keyboards, **use the up and down arrow keys**, then press the Enter key.

> **PRO TIP:** You can search for your sites by typing their name right away &mdash; you don't need to first select the "Search sites..." command. 

![Searching for sites](../../media/command-palette/sites-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Searching for sites](../../media/command-palette/sites-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

### Contextual commands

Some commands become available based on the *context* of where you are in the Netlify UI. For example, searching for Functions or Forms is only available once you navigate to a site in the Netlify UI. Similarly, the commands to open a deploy's repo or pull request in a new tab are only available if you've navigated to a deploy on a site that's connected to git. 

**If you want to edit a site-specific setting** &mdash; like changing environment variables &mdash; you should **navigate to the site first** by typing the site name and selecting it from the filtered list. Then, when you use the Command Palette again, you can search for environment variables and jump directly to the site’s list of environment variables.

![Changing a site's environment variables](../../media/command-palette/env-var-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Changing a site's environment variables](../../media/command-palette/env-var-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

## Giving feedback

Is there a command that you'd like to add to the Command Palette? **We'd love to hear your thoughts!** You can leave feedback inside the Command Palette itself by typing "feedback" or by selecting the speech bubble icon in the bottom-right-hand corner. 

![Leave feedback](../../media/command-palette/feedback-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Leave feedback](../../media/command-palette/feedback-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

Let us know what you think!

Commit message:

Adding graduation banner to Command Palette chapter

features/command-palette/README.md, after:

# Command Palette

> **NOTE:** This feature originated in Labs, and is now generally available for all users. The content of this readme pertains to the original Labs launch, and is archived here for posterity. For up-to-date documentation about the Command Palette, head over to [the docs](https://docs.netlify.com/welcome/command-palette/). 

The Command Palette is a power tool that gives you quick navigation through the Netlify UI and access to various commands. Use it by pressing <kbd>CTRL</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd> on Windows or Linux (or <kbd>CMD</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd> on macOS), or by selecting the magnifying glass icon in the navigation header. 

**The Command Palette enables you to:**

- Jump to any site on any of your teams
- Navigate directly to a deeply-nested feature or setting
- Search the [docs](https://docs.netlify.com), [blog](https://www.netlify.com/blog/), and [support forums](https://answers.netlify.com) from within the Netlify UI
- Quickly toggle between light and dark modes
- And much more!

## Getting started

To get started, you will need to enable the feature in [Netlify Labs](https://app.netlify.com/user/labs). On the Netlify Labs page, next to the **Command Palette** experimental feature, select **Enable**.

![Enabling Command Palette in Netlify Labs](../../media/command-palette/ff-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Enabling Command Palette in Netlify Labs](../../media/command-palette/ff-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

This action will enable the feature for your account only. 

Once you've enabled Command Palette, you can **use it at any time** by pressing <kbd>CTRL</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd> on Windows or Linux (or <kbd>CMD</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd> on macOS), or by selecting the magnifying glass icon in the navigation header. Doing so will overlay the Command Palette in the center of your window.

![Invoking the Command Palette](../../media/command-palette/palette-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Invoking the Command Palette](../../media/command-palette/palette-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

## Using the Command Palette

After opening the Command Palette, start typing to filter the list of available commands. You can use a mouse, touch screen, or keyboard to select a command. For keyboards, **use the up and down arrow keys**, then press the Enter key.

> **PRO TIP:** You can search for your sites by typing their name right away &mdash; you don't need to first select the "Search sites..." command. 

![Searching for sites](../../media/command-palette/sites-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Searching for sites](../../media/command-palette/sites-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

### Contextual commands

Some commands become available based on the *context* of where you are in the Netlify UI. For example, searching for Functions or Forms is only available once you navigate to a site in the Netlify UI. Similarly, the commands to open a deploy's repo or pull request in a new tab are only available if you've navigated to a deploy on a site that's connected to git. 

**If you want to edit a site-specific setting** &mdash; like changing environment variables &mdash; you should **navigate to the site first** by typing the site name and selecting it from the filtered list. Then, when you use the Command Palette again, you can search for environment variables and jump directly to the site’s list of environment variables.

![Changing a site's environment variables](../../media/command-palette/env-var-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Changing a site's environment variables](../../media/command-palette/env-var-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

## Giving feedback

Is there a command that you'd like to add to the Command Palette? **We'd love to hear your thoughts!** You can leave feedback inside the Command Palette itself by typing "feedback" or by selecting the speech bubble icon in the bottom-right-hand corner. 

![Leave feedback](../../media/command-palette/feedback-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Leave feedback](../../media/command-palette/feedback-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

Let us know what you think!
